---
layout: post
title: Woodrow Wilson hated the French
permalink: :year/:month/:day
---

# Says Henry Kissinger despite himself

When reading his book, Diplomacy, Henry tries hard to pass off Wilson as the messiah who represented the best of American values. But the Messiah's actions suggest otherwise. To be fair, he had no hand in *causing* the World War I. However, once it had been fought and armistice achieved, he lead the peace negotiations. That's where he failed. Kissinger says he embodied the ideals of democracy, morals and believed that the moral-code of the state cannot be different from the individual self. These hypocritical principles look good on paper but when they were forced on Europe, it did a lot of harm. Nations like France were left disgruntled, and vulnerable in the end.

I do not understand his edgy attitude towards the French. When he presented his Fourteen Points to the US Government, outlining his peace plan for European, he left granting of Alsace-Lorraine back to the victorious French as a *suggestion*, not to be enforced. Alsace-Lorraine was the what the French were fighting for in the first place. They were left flabbergasted, naturally.

The second injustice he did was not promising them protection in the case of future German offensive. The French were sensible enough to see that the plan Mr. Wilson has is faulty and it made Germany only stronger (by surrounding it with small weak states begging for annexation). He did not promise to defend, nor did he allow the League of Nations to promise protection. His argument, the League will come to the rescue when there is need. The French weren't buying that, naturally. Also, the League of Nations wasn't his idea. It was England's. Mr. Wilson passed it as his own, quite shamelessly I must add.

The Europe he left in his enthusiasm to act as the Messiah (he did the negotiations himself on behalf of the States) was precarious, more than it had been before the Great War. The funny thing is Kissinger never tires of praising him whenever he can. 

