---
layout: post
title: java objects
permalink: :year/:month/:day
---

# object creation is a two step process

```java
Dog rocky;
// the jvm allocates space on the **stack** for a reference 
// variable of type Dog 

rocky = new Dog(); 
// the jvm allocates space for the object on the **heap** and 
// assigns the address bits of the object to the rocky variable
```

 - Heap is for objects and is garbage collectible. Making variables public will make them accessible outside the class as well.

 - Static methods don't depend on the state of the object/class. They cannot access the non-static methods but vice-versa is possible. It is good pratice to access static methods using the classnames. 

 - Java programs can be distributed by packing them in a jar (java archive) and including a manifest file that details the location of `main()` method, dependencies, how to compile the code etc. You might also have to bundle a JVM if the host system does not have it.


 - Type safety - Dog variables can't hold Cat objects. Java is type safe, Python isn't
Strongly types 

 - `final` - declaring a variable final means that it cannot be reassigned to another object, even of the same type - it's value cannot be changed

 - `Dog rocky;` - here `rocky` is a Dog object reference variable. It has stored the address bits that point to the Dog object on the heap

 - `char c = 'd'` - here the `c` variable holds to char `d`

 - `rocky = null;` this removes the address bits from `rocky` variable.
  

```java
Dog a = new Dog();
Dog b = new Dog();
```

This creats two dog objects on the heap. 

`Dog c = b;`

Now, this wont create a new object, this will paste the address biits in b into c. So, c will point to object refered to b only.


 - int[] mylist = new int[7]; // this creates a new *int array* object





























