---
layout: post
title: Github merge vs rebase
permalink: :year/:month/:day/
---

# Merge or Rebase?

Imagine you are working on a project and have a crazy new idea for a feature. You branch out, create a new_feature branch and make changes and commit a lot of code. To integrate the branch back into your `master`, you can merge. In the event that the master hasn't moved, your merge will be a fast forward merge and you will get a perfectly linear history.

However, in the case that the master branch has moved, when you merge, you will get a 3 way merge. It is called a 3 way merge because 3 commits are involved - the reference commit to the master branch, the reference commit to the new_feature branch and the merge commit. 

If you do not want the merge commit and need a linear project history, you can rebase and merge

Like so:
{% highlight bash %}
git init # on master branch
touch file1
git add file1
git commit -m "add file1"

#branching out for a new_feature
git checkout -b new_feature
touch file2
git add file2
git commit -m "add file2"

#lets move the master as well
git checkout master
touch file3
git add file3   
git commit -m "add file3"
{% endhighlight %}

Now, if we merge the new_feature branch, it will be a 3 way merge and create a merge commit.
Simply do git merge new_feature

To prevent the merge commit, `rebase`:

{% highlight bash %}
git checkout new_feature
git rebase master
git checkout master
{% endhighlight %}

Currently, all the commit from the new_feature branch are lying at the tip of master and it is blissfully ignorant of them. Merge them in and get the HEAD to the latest commit from new_feature:

    git merge new_feature

This will create a fast forward merge and you are spared of a merge commit, also, the project history is perfectly linear

Rebasing is recommended for small patches, where you don't want to record the merge. For large, significant and long running features, it is nice to have merge commits to know when it was merged.