---
layout: post
title: yml, xml, yaml, json
permalink: :year/:month/:day/
---

# All serve different purposes

`xml`, `yaml` and `json` are different text file formats that are used to store data in a structured manner. They can be used to transfer data between different machines, manipulate data, render data etc. All three have their individual plus points and negative points


# `xml`

eXtensible Markup Language is old. It can be seen in config files of eclipse and other oldish software. It is too verbose, but that also makes parsing faster. 

It is different from HTML as it can have it's own custom tags. But, unlike HTML, it strictly needs to have it's tags closed.

{% highlight xml %}
<humans>
   <human>
        <firstName>Larry</firstName> <lastName>Page</lastName>
    </human>
    <human>
        <firstName>Sergey</firstName> <middleName>X</middleName>
        <lastName>Brin</lastName>
    </human>
</humans>
{% endhighlight %}

# `json`

JavaScript Object Notation (`json`) is used by JavaScript for client-server communication. It is readable by humans as well.

It is flexible and uses key:value pairs to store data.

{% highlight json %}
{
    "humans": [
        {
            "human": {
                "firstName": "Larry",
                "lastName": "Page"
            }
        },
        {
            "human": {
                "firstName": "Sergey",
                "middleName": "X",
                "lastName": "Brin"
            }
        }
    ]
}
{% endhighlight %}


JSON text can be converted to JS objects using the parse function.


# `yaml`

YAML stands for YAML Ain’t Markup Language. It is more readable, even more than JSON. Everything is a string, so quotes are not needed.

It too uses key-value pairs. Curly brackets are for lists of pairs, arrays for dashes, "-", []


Keys within a structure at a particular level must be unique, so, we cannot use `human` here as a key.
The same data in `yaml`:

{% highlight yaml %}
humans:
    0:
        person: {firstName: Larry, lastName: Page}
    1:  person:
            firstName: Sergey
            middleName: X
            lastName: Brin
{% endhighlight %}

`yaml` is used in Travis CI config files.
`yml` is just an alternative extension used for `yaml` files by many Windows developers because they prefer 3 letter extensions